# The Demoniac's Descendant

## Background
Inspired by story from Mark 9:14-29 and Matthew 7:14-21, where Jesus healed a man’s son who was possessed by demons.  Many generations down the line in the 21 century a descendant of the child who was an accomplished, multi-award winning medical scientist, now retired, reflected on his own childhood and called to mind this story of how an ancestor came across Jesus and got delivered from the demon-possession. Although he had carried this story with him through life with skepticism he was about to have an encounter of his own.


## Plot 
A retired medical research expert [_I'm sure there's a better term for this_] was reminiscing and stumbled upon a thought. It was one  about a family legend that had been passed down from generations.
The legend has it that one of his ancestors who had been a great man in the history of his people had an encounter while he was a child.
This ancestor was thought to have lived around 6BC to 60AD. Although, as there were no official records it is difficult to ascertain the actual time of his life, aspects of his story and the circumstances around it dates the story to the Roman Empire in its prime. This child who was called Nimrod had suffered an unexplained condition, which caused him to convulse and suffer greatly. (Research medical conditions that may have such symptoms). The episodes were initially mild as well as few and far in between, but after a while became more regular.and aggravated. Though there were many ailments which were simply unexplainable at the time due to limited advancements in medicine, this was particularly strange. It seemed like a severe case of epilepsy, but there was certainly more to it.
No physicians could help him no matter how much his parents tried. It had become a source of shame to the family and heartbreak to his parents. But one day a young Aramaic speaking religious teacher had allegedly claimed the condition was a result of some unseen spirit which torments people by possessing their bodies and then oppresses them at random times. This Rabbi had supposedly then performed an exorcism by simply asking the spirit to leave the child’s body.

The reminiscing senior sat in his armchair in the middle of the day having retired from many years of an illustrious medical career had smiled at the recollection of the legend as told to him several times by his father. Each time with slightly varying  versions, exposing the inaccuracy of the legend and casting doubt on the veracity of the account. “How medical science has advanced over the centuries”, he thought to himself. “… and how we as the human race have moved on from the dark ages where we took advantage of ourselves by reason of ignorance, deceiving one another with baseless claims of mysticism and other unfounded explanations for simple easily diagnosable medical conditions”, he continued in his thoughts. This he did, shaking his head at such absurdity, completely mystified by how unsuspecting simple people of old fell to the schemes of charlatans who had enriched their pockets and gained much influence in their day at the expense of innocent simple minds.

Professor Rabin[^1] who was a professor of diagnostic medicine[^2] from the Johns Hopkins university even though he’s German had emigrated to the United States as a  refugee when the Nazis came into power. His emigration as a child and the circumstances surrounding it play a central role in his skepticism about God and even his own family history. Born in Berlin to a Rabbi father and homemaker mother. He was the fifth of seven children of whom six were boys and two were girls. Early childhood was fairly decent. Dad, Levi was an avid writer who published a fortnightly periodical about opinions of scholars on the dynamics of daily life with respect to staying within the Torah and Talmud. Levi had raised his kids with the Jewish culture. He had thought them the value of hardwork and determining your own destiny by applying yourself. It had worked, Rabin like his siblings was very successful. He had contributed immensely to the field of medical research and had many awards to show for it. He had advised governments and international health organisations.

In one of his periodicals, Levi had alluded to the idolatry of Chrisitanity in following Jesus, who had claimed to be the Messiah, but who had failed to match the descriptions of what the Messiah according to the prophets[^3]. However, in the same publication mentioned his link to Jesus through an ancestor who had a personal encounter with him. The story of this encounter had been a family legend pased down through generations. Rabin himself had first heard this from great-aunt Talia on one of his summer holidays visitng with her in Portage County, Winscosin[^4]. 

The story comes to a close with Rabin actually developing a rare medical condition himself and through a seven year period and highs and lows of the treatments, supposed healings and relapsing of his own medical condition he meets a young lady, Raissa who reminded him of his start in medical research. Raissa, an Indian, born and raised in Africa had been making the news due to groundbreaking research she had done in the area of pancreatic cancer research. The research had led to the procedure that could help with early detection of the cancer. And she was now working on a new research 

Rabin’s visit to Raissa had led to rounds of dialogues between them that started with his condition and the medical pathological basis of disease in general. Over time their conversations moved into their personal philosophies and what formed the core of it. Soon Raissa’s own background as an atheist who later became a follower of Jesus (the Yeshua in Rabin’s ancestor’s story) after her own personal encounter on her first role as a medical researcher surfaces. Initially, met by skepticism and even slight ridicule from Rabin. Later on he revealed the story of his ancestor’s supposed exorcism by this same Jesus). Raissa was blown away by what she considered such a rich heritage as she considered having an ancestor who actually met Jesus in person.

Rabin never got healed of the disease, but he came out of retirement to work with Raissa and together they found a cure to the condition although not in time for Rabin to benefit from it, but on his deathbed he became a follower of Jesus.


### Research, Sources and Kitchensink
[^1]: find more suitable name that can show he was from a lineage of scribes, tell story such that his ancestors had gone back to Judaism after experiencing persecution when Nimrod and his father, Balaak who became followers of Jesus joined the early church to preach around the world after the Pentecost)
[^2]: there must be a medical term for this
[^3]: Ashkenazi Jewish Generic Diseases, [<mark>ashkenazi-jewish-genetic-diseases </mark>](https://arupconsult.com/content/ashkenazi-jewish-genetic-diseases)
[^4]: expand on this by talking about the great-aunt's version of the story